today I'll use body filler Bondo mud or
whatever you want to call it to repair
the dent in this quarter panel I'll
share with you how to mix apply shape
and block your filler and give you all
the tips tricks and techniques I use to
get a perfect OEM shape in your repair
or restoration project remember it's not
a dirty word it's just Bondo I'll walk
you through quickly how we got this Dent
prepared and ready for filler now this
Dent is about 18 inches we've got a
crease right down the center and we also
have a body line that's been damaged so
we need to get that dent out we need to
knock down the high areas around the
dent so we'll tap down the crowns as we
pull out the center of that dent once I
have the majority of the dent pulled out
with the glue tabs we'll go ahead and
grind it down to Bare Metal now we're
going to use the g90e to pull out the
remaining dents now it's important not
to over pull at this point you want to
leave a little bit of room so you can
use that filler properly to block that
panel straight the dent has been removed
and we're now ready for some fillers so
we need to prepare the surface we're
going to apply the filler to with some
80 grit sandpaper we want a good 80 grit
scratch in those painted surfaces and
over the metal so we have proper
adhesion now I like to apply it over the
edge of the paint surface so we're going
to feather out this edge with the 80
grit sandpaper and then apply our filler
over it always check your technical data
sheet to find out if the filler you're
using can be applied Over Paint before
we apply our filler we want to clean the
surface so I'm using some Sprayway glass
cleaner just to remove that dust residue
you can also use isopropyl alcohol or
wax and grease remover today we're using
U-Pull lightweight gold it's a
reasonably priced filler that cuts
really well we mix our filler 50 to 1 or
2 percent hardener now you always want
to knead your hardener tube and mix that
up before you apply it to your filler
U-Pull claims that their filler won't
separate when sitting in the can so I
was curious to see if that was true sure
enough I had no separation in the can
when I opened it up now I'm going to go
ahead and Stir It Up anyway and I'll
apply a little bit to my palette I'm not
going to need a ton of filler we're
going to do a thin coat fill those low
areas and then we'll go over it with a
second coat always mix up your hardener
knead it in make sure it's all mixed up
in there before you apply it if a clear
liquid comes out you know that's not
properly mixed up because after they sit
they will separate I apply my hardener
from the center to the outside edge of
my puddle and in normal temperatures
that's going to be the right amount of
hardener for your filler if it's a
hotter day you're going to want to use a
little bit less hardener if it's cooler
day you might want to use a little bit
more when mixing you don't want to
introduce any extra air into your filler
so avoid stirring it you want to fold it
in until it's all one uniform color and
you have no streaks if you stir it or
introduce air you're going to cause
pinholes when you spread it on your
panel and start block sanding it and
then you're going to have to correct
those after mixing if you press out the
filler flat on your panel that's going
to help eliminate those air pockets as
well it's also going to dissipate the
heat so you're going to have a little
bit more time to work with this filler
before it kicks get a small amount on
your spreader and press it into the
metal this will promote adhesion you
don't need to put it on all at once
we're going to put several coats on
while this is wet and we'll add filler
with each additional coat I'll spread it
on the top section first down to that
body line and then we'll come back to
the bottom section and we'll start
forming that body line out of filler now
we can start adding some more filler we
can decrease the pressure on our
spreader and allow that filler to fill
all those low areas so then when we go
to block it out we'll have a nice
straight panel
okay so now we're going to do the first
sanding on this I'm going to put a
little guide coat on here just to show
you uh how it blocks out today I'm going
to be using this uh 3M cubatron extract
sandpaper supposed to be really good
sandpaper supposed to last a long time
and really cut well cost effective too
because even though it's a little bit
more expensive it's going to last a heck
of a lot longer I like the shape with 80
grit you could shape with 36 grit it's a
coarser paper it's going to cut it
quicker but it leaves very deep
scratches that you have to remove so my
progression is 80 grit 180 32 600. here
I'm using a flexible long block because
this quarter panel has these Contours
and we want this block to lay flat
against that panel in order to get it
straight it's best to use the longest
block possible that you can lay flat
against the surface now if you don't
have a long block you could use a small
block but you just have to work your way
across the panel doing sections at a
time but it's always best to use a long
block if possible and I have links to
all the tools and products I use down in
the description
the technique to block is a cross
Hatcher x pattern you want to go in all
different directions so the important
thing is you don't want to just block in
One Direction Block in different
directions you want to level this filler
out that is the whole goal in order to
get this panel straight I'll block the
lower section of this quarter panel
first blocking up to that body line and
then we'll work the top section and
we'll block down to it
as I'm blocking this I can see we have a
little bit of a low area where that
guide code is at the front of this
quarter panel will have to address that
and I'm starting to break through into
some bare metal so what I want to do now
is to stop on this lower section and
we'll start working the top section once
you hit bare metal you're no longer
blocking that filler straight you need
to address that metal you either need to
tap it down and add some more filler in
that area or add filler over the entire
repair area and block that once again
these hires were very minor so I was
able to tap those down with the flat
round section of my body Hammer you
could also use a paint stick or a
shrinking slapper with your body Hammer
to knock down those eye areas now I went
ahead and cleaned this panel with some
isopropyl alcohol and then I masked off
that body line and we're going to lay
another coat of body filler over this
lower section
once we applied the filler we'll go
ahead and pull the tape and then we'll
block over this with 80 grit sandpaper
we want to smooth this out with the 80
grit and then I'll go over it with 180
grit to refine those 80 grit scratches
I'll apply some guide coat and then
we'll work from the front to the rear of
this quarter panel straightening it out
as we go and if you're using a small
block you can this is the technique you
want to use you want to do it in
sections make sure you're going blocking
in all different directions to get that
nice and flat now off camera I went
ahead and blocked this entire repair
area with 180 grit sandpaper now we're
ready to clean this so I'm going to wash
this with some isopropyl alcohol we just
have a few minor imperfections and a few
little waves but we're going to correct
all that with some glazing putty I'll go
ahead and re-tape this body line quickly
and then we'll lay our glazing putty
right up to that line pull the tape and
that'll help give us a guide to shape
that body line
this is the product I'll be using today
this is USC icing this is a glazing
polyester glazing putty is what it is
it'll fill any imperfections it'll also
feel scratches so we have some 80 grit
scratches that we might have missed this
is a good insurance pot to get those
filled and not primer over those we have
a few little waves that we're going to
block out using this glazing putty we
won't need a whole lot to do this entire
quarter panel this is going to be a very
thin coat to fill some minor scratches
in a few little waves so we poured a
little bit on our pallet We'll add our
hardener we'll fold it until it's all
one uniform color and then we'll apply
it to the panel when you're applying
this glazing putty you want to press it
in firm you want it to be as smooth as
possible because remember we're almost
done with this repair and the less
blocking we have to do at this point the
better this is a very thin coat and it
blocks very easy so 180 grit sandpaper
is what you sand this with then we'll
block over it with 320 to get it
prepared for primer
I'll go ahead and pull the tape and then
we'll apply our icing to the bottom half
of this repair I hope you're finding
this video helpful if you are or if you
have any questions let me know down in
the comments below
so the icy came out nice and smooth we
have a little Ridge right on the byline
that's okay we're going to block up to
that and block down to it and we'll
shape that right at the end just before
we primer it
I'll add a little guide coat to make
sure we're getting this sanded smooth
and we'll get our 80 grit sandpaper
along with our flexible block and block
this in an x pattern until we got it
perfectly smooth
after the icing starts to smooth out I
switch over to 320 or a sandpaper and
finish my blocking with 320 to remove
those 180 grit scratches and get it
ready for primer now I am using the 3M
cubaton 2 extract sandpaper and I love
that sandpaper it works great Cuts
beautifully so now I'm just fitting up
the rear bumper I noticed that the body
line is not quite where I want it to be
so I need to make some adjustments there
I'm going to do a little bit of blocking
and shaping of that body line and blend
it in basically to the rest of the
quarter panel now we are painting this
rear bumper so we're not worried about
320 grit scratches on that bumper this
is going to be sanded down and painted
now we've got this body line matching up
perfectly so it's time to Prime
the primer we're using today is the
U-Pull system 20 2253 it is a high Build
primer that mixes up four to one to one
for the primer surfacer which is what
we're going to be using today we don't
want a really thick High Build primer
because this panel is perfectly straight
so we'll find our mixing ratio on the
bottom of our disposable cup system this
is the savito Disposable cup system it's
a budget friendly disposable cup
and we'll mix it up to that ratio we'll
add our four parts primer
our one part activator the 23 23
and one part of urethane reducer
we'll mix it up we'll add our lid now
you want to make sure this is sealed I
always like to lift it up make sure it's
nice and sealed it's not going to leak
we'll add our collar and we're ready to
spray our primer so I went ahead and
masked this off
the gun I'll be using today is the
Eastwood lt100 this is a low CFM gun
sprays really well does a really good
job with paint sealer clear coat we're
going to go ahead and set our air
pressure at about 15 psi we'll have our
fan pattern wide open and we'll have our
volume turn three turns out from closed
I'll apply one coat we'll let it flash
off for 15 minutes and then we'll apply
a second coat of this 2K urethane primer
now we're ready for the second coat and
I'm going to use this little gun bud
this is a light for your spray gun
oh yeah this is key if you're working in
a home garage you have poor lighting get
yourself one of these gun buds or
something similar this works great in
this environment you're not in a paint
booth you don't have a ton of lighting
but if you add one of these now you can
see what you're doing especially if
you're doing Blends when I'm in a dark
area and I'm trying to primer
he's coming really handy
listen if you want to learn how to prep
out and prepare your primer for paint
check out one of these videos now and be
sure to check out next week's video when
we finish up this repair I appreciate
you watching and we'll see you next time
on garage